# 📊 VENU+ Vision — DBT Reporting Project
## 📝 Project Description
This project delivers reporting and transformation capabilities for the Venu+ platform using DBT (Data Build Tool). It enables a clean, consistent, and automated approach to managing your data models in Snowflake.

### ⚙️ Development Requirements
Before committing to any branch, all developers must:
- Follow code quality and formatting standards enforced by linters.
- Pass security checks and testing steps.
- Use the provided virtual environment to ensure consistent tool versions and behaviour.

All linting, security, and test tools are integrated into the virtual environment defined in this repository.

## 🚀 Quick Setup
After cloning the repository, run the appropriate setup script based on your operating system.

📁 This will:
1. Create a virtual environment at .venv/
2. Activate it
3. Install dependencies from requirements.txt

### macOS/Linux

bash utils/initial_setup.sh

### Windows
utils\initial_setup.bat

## Run DBT commands under the /vision_dbt:
DBT (Data Build Tool) is a command-line tool that streamlines the data transformation and modeling process in data warehouses. It is primarily used for creating and managing SQL-based transformations in the data pipeline. Here are the few commands:

- dbt debug:
Command: dbt debug Description: This command executes to test the database connection and display information for debugging purposes, such as the validity of your project file, the dbt version, and your installation of any requisite dependencies.

- dbt run:
Command: dbt run Description: This command executes all models in your DBT project, running the SQL queries in your project's models against your data warehouse.

- dbt clean:
Command: dbt clean Description: Deletes all the artifacts generated by DBT, including the compiled SQL and temporary files, to free up space and ensure a clean build.

- dbt list:
Command: dbt list Description: Lists all the available models, tests, and sources in your DBT project.

- dbt test:
Command: dbt test Description: It runs tests defined in your DBT project to ensure that your data transformation processes meet the expected quality and integrity standards.

- dbt deps:
Command: dbt deps Description: Installs project dependencies defined in your packages.yml file, such as custom macros and packages.

### For DBT documentation: https://docs.getdbt.com/reference/dbt-commands